All right, so let's talk about
some Out of Ordinary Concepts and review
where you can use Local Variable Type Inference.
So var is not to be confused
with a variable type, as I mentioned.
Just because you define a local variable
with a var designation,
it doesn't mean that it's a variable type.
The type's inferred by its initialization,
and cannot be changed.
All the narrowing, widening rules
for the inferred type do apply.
You can't use LVTI, or var,
for class or instance variables,
for method return types,
for method parameters,
or for constructor parameters.
What you can use Local Variable Type Inference var
is for local variables in methods and code blocks,
and loop variables.
I'm gonna show you some code,
where we're using LVTI in loops.
So going back to the code.
We're going to create a new class
and we'll call this one VarLoops.
As always, paste in some code.
All right, so you can see there that we're using LVTI var
in a regular for loop on line 12.
And the reason we can do that is
that the type can be inferred by the initialization,
in this case equals zero, line 12.
But also in an enhanced for loop, same principles apply.
We can use var there as well,
and the reason for that is we can infer the type,
in this case a String based on the String array args.
All right, so let's review, again,
the valid and invalid declarations
and initialization values for an LVTI, var.
All right, firstly, the valid uses of LVTI
are for local variables only.
So in the examples here,
it's important that they're all assumed
to be local variables.
So var i = 1.
The explanation for that, the reason that it's valid,
is since the literal one is an int,
var i is inferred to be an int, and it's valid.
Next example, var j = 1.0f/2.
j is inferred to be a float
because we've got a float value there.
Now in the next example, short s = 1.
var k = +s.
k is actually inferred to be the int and not a short
since the operator plus,
which doesn't change the value of one,
forces s to be promoted to an int.
So again, in this scenario, k will actually be an int.
All right, moving on,
we've got var list equals new ArrayList.
That's okay because ArrayList
doesn't need to be typed to be initialised.
And the next example,
var myArray equals new String array five.
That's okay because type is inferred
to be an array of String.
All right, now looking at some invalid
declarations of LVTI for local variables only.
Var I equals one comma I equals two.
That's invalid because var can't be used
in a compound statement.
And the next example: Var I comma J equals one
is invalid for the same reasons.
Var integer.
Integer here is a variable name and therefore
type cannot be inferred without an initializer.
Var myObject equals null,
the var variable cannot be initialised to null,
type cannot be inferred in this scenario
because of the null neutral.
Now, the last ones can be a bit confusing
because it looks legal.
Var myArray equals left-right curly braces
and initializer of two Strings, A and B.
Looking at that, you'd think that'd be
an array of Strings, right?
Unfortunately, that's invalid because the var variable
cannot be initialised with an array initializer.
So that could be a tricky one being asked in an exam.
All right, back to the code.
Let's create another class called Var, with a capital V.
Paste in a code.
So first thing: yes we can name a class
Var with a capital V, which we've done here.
But also a reminder that var itself isn't a keyword.
And you can see that
on line 17,
I'm actually using var as a variable name,
and it's quite valid or it's completely valid in Java 11.
What you can also see is that on line 26,
we can also name a method var if we want to do that as well.
Now not that you can't have a method parameter of type var,
however you can have a method named var
and a method parameter named var,
and you can see we're doing that on line 26.
And moving on, how confusing can we make it?
Well, we can use LVTI to set the local variable
to our method parameter named var.
We've got var X equals var on line 30,
which is really confusing code.
And also in this for loop: for var Y colon X.
Probably running this would make more sense.
So let's got ahead and do that. We'll run it.
And you can see Y equals one, two, three.
There's our array list we have to find on line 17.
We're making a call to our method var,
with the argument named var,
X is assigned var,
and here, we're using an enhanced for loop
to go through the contents of X,
which effectively is var,
and putting out the values, very confusing.
Bottom line here is that it is valid
and you may be asked that in the exam.
That's a good thing to actually know.
What you can't do though, interesting enough,
I'll just show that you can't create a class
called var in lowercase, all lowercase in this scenario.
IntelliJ is not allowing it, as you can see here,
and the code bar would give you an error similar
to what I've got on the screen there now:
"Var is a restricted local variable type,
"and cannot be used for type declarations."
All right, so that's Local Variable Type Inference.
Hopefully you know enough about it now
so if you get asked questions along those lines
in the exam, you'll be able to answer that.
The next video is a short quiz
testing some of the items we've covered so far for LVTI.
And then after that, we'll move on to the next section.
See you in the next video.